#LyX 1.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 218
\textclass scrartcl
\language english
\inputencoding latin1
\fontscheme palatino
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single 
\papersize a4paper
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language polish
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title


\family roman 
Pertergrin
\family default 
\size large 

\newline 

\family roman 
\series medium 
\size larger 
A fantasy role playing game for one or more characters.
\latex latex 

\backslash 
vfill
\layout Author

Author: (C) 1989 - 2001 Reinhard Katzmann
\newline 
License: This document is distributed under the GPL.
\layout Date

Last document update: 25.
 03.
 2001
\latex latex 

\backslash 
newpage
\layout Standard
\align center 

\series bold 
\size larger 
Abstract
\layout Abstract
\noindent 
Pertergrin a fantasy role playing game.
 As such it has certain known features of this type of games.
 It has a freely invented historic background.
 The player (i.e.
 YOU) plays the role of a hero.
 The computer plays the role of the master which controls the game.
 Pertergrin is also a fantasy role playing game system.
 As such you do not only play one game (or sequels) but you can create your
 own games inside Pertergrin.
 It has the potential to break the historic restriction (so you could theoretica
lly invent a science fiction role playing game) but this is outside the
 direct focus of the authors.
 Pertergrin features an Editor where you can change the Per\SpecialChar \-
tergrin World.
 You can create the world, buildings, towns, NPCs, and other objects.
 Pertergrin is an acronym for Per Terram Grinare.
 Pertergrin is a game developed for Amiga and Linux.
\layout Section*


\family roman 
Introduction into the role playing game
\layout Standard

A role playing game is a game where players perform the role of heroes.
 This means that they act as if they were such a hero thereby making decisions
 about acts.
 Contrary to other games there are no direct rules which prevent the player
 certain possibilities (except those which are not implemented, but this
 can be changed, too).
 The characteristics of a hero are determined when he is created and changed
 by the experiences (s)he gains throughout teh game.
 The basic characteristic values are random (or fate as the hero would call
 it).
 Additonal attributes based on these values can be influenced by the type
 of hero the player choses.
 In the classical role playing environment the creation is undertaken with
 different dices and checked by a master.
 The master also is the person who invents the adventures the heroes are
 participating.
 Nowadays the computer plays the part which controls the creation and controls
 the game actions (especially the throws against attributes or a special
 ability) as far as needed.
 The advantages and disadvantages will not be discussed here.
 Currently Pertergrin is only planned as a computer based game (though in
 the beginning this was different).
 
\layout Standard

So the dices are replaced by number generators and many tasks of the master
 are done by the computer.
 The master in most computer based role playing games are the programmers
 of the game.
 Pertergrin is a bit different here.
 Though it is basically like the other games it can be expanded by one or
 several masters.
 They can create new places (like dungeons, castles, towns or even changes
 to the world Pertergrin itself), new non playable characters (NPCs), new
 objects (like items, weapons, armours, scrolls) and more.
 This is done inside the PtgEditor.
\layout Standard

The first part of this document describes the game basics (creation of character
s, description of items, description of races and hero types).
 The second part of this document explains the concept of the editor.
 As the master is responsible for game balance for his adventures this part
 also should be a help to make an adventure for a hero or a group of heroes
 not too hard and not too easy.
 The last part of this document contains several technical aspects of the
 game and the editor.
 This technical documentation should help expanding the game and the editor
 further than the author had in mind when creating it.
 This is possible through an high modularity.
\layout Part*


\family roman 
Part I: Game Basics
\layout Standard

The first part has all the information a player needs for creating a character,
 playing adventures and the basic actions the player can perform (like bying,
 selling, fighting, casting spells, negotiating, using items).
 Though these are mainly player informations the master should read them
 to fully understand the Pertergrin concept.
\layout Section*


\family roman 
1.
 Creating a new character
\layout Standard

Before a game can be started, the player (i.e.
 YOU) must create a character which is generally called hero throughout
 this document.
 At first the basic characteristic values must be determined.
 Technical aspects about these and all other values described in this document
 are in Part III which also contains information about the range where all
 the values are.
 The characteristic values are the base for all attributes, special abilities
 and other values described in this section.
 All other values can be influenced by the game play.
 Every hero is armed and equipped with weapons armour and other equipment.
 This stuff is either the possession of the player or has been bought in
 shops with the money the character earned while he grew up.
 Every hero has its own background story which is somewhat random but mainly
 determined by the race and the hero type the player has chosen.
\layout Standard

The characteristic values which cannot be changed during game play are:
 Force, Charisma, Intelligence, Will-Power, Reaction.
 The attributes which somewhat correspond to these values are: Strength,
 Wisdom, Courage, Dexterity, Beauty.
 These values are influenced by the hero type the player can chose.
 These types are a kind of profession the hero has learned during his education.
 The following default hero types exist in the game: Knight, Sorcerer, Adventurer, Musician, Druid, Believer.
 Hero types can also be a mixture of two basic hero types like Sorcerer-Knight
 though there are no default types of this kind.
 Every hero has one of these (default) races: Terranian (similar to humans
 on earth), Elf, Fairy, Dwarf, Gnome, Diminan.
 Races can be mixed as well (like TerrElf or TerrDiminan) though there are
 no default races like this.
 The details of the hero types and races are described in a later section.
\layout Standard

Several other important values describe a hero.
 These are used for special complicated actions which a hero can perform.
 These are based on the characteristic values or attributes but also have
 a random factor.
 The most important ones are the life points and the endurance points.
 The life point get reduced through wounds or other effects while the endurance
 points go down when certain actions like climbing, fighting or running
 are performed.
 Endurance point are restored much faster than life points.
 If life points go down to zero, the character is dead.
 If the endurance points go down to zero, the character is unconscious (and
 remains until a certain number of endurance points is gained again).
 The details about hit power, protection power, attack chance and defence
 chance are explained in the fighting secion.
\layout Standard

The heroes which are able to cast spells have an additional power which
 comes from the mind: astral power.
 They concentrate this power to release a spoken magic formula or a spoken
 prayer.
 The success of this trial depends on the spell chance (or the dictum chance
 of believers) they have.
 The last missing values of a hero are weight, money, infravision and speed.
 The weight determines how much the player can carry, the infravision gives
 information how good the hero can see in the dark and the speed shows how
 fast a player can run.
 The other special abilities are discussed in the abilities chapter.
 The next section explains how the character gains experience and how they
 can be raised.
\layout Section*


\family roman 
2.
 Experience Levels of a character
\layout Standard

While playing the game the hero goes through adventures and gathers experiences.
 This can happen by killing a monster, finding or disarming a trap (or using
 other special abilities), solving puzzles or adventures and other things
 which you need to find out.
 If he has enough experience he gains a new experience level.
 In this process the attribute values can be raised as well as the special
 abilities.
 All other abilities or values are recalculated.
 When you gain a new level you have to decide which of the attributes you
 want to raise by how many times.
 The same happens for the special abilities.
 The other values either raise dependant on the attributes which they're
 basing or by a certain value which depends on the characteristic values.
 By using special abilities succesfully you gain experience in the way that
 you get a certain chance that this ability raises by a value calculated
 by wisdom, the attributes which influence that ability and a random factor.
 
\layout Standard

All the adventures which you might want to play normally have a level restrictio
n, which means that as long as you have not reached the low level limit
 or if you are above the upper limit you cannot play this adventure.
 The adventures which were created with the editor can only be loaded into
 the game with a format which cannot read by the editor to avoid that the
 player is cheating.
 Usually even when you find a loadable adventure, it won't contain the quest
 elements you are looking for.
 To make the whole thing even more interesting there is an option in the
 game which disables saving while you are playing an adventure.
 Adventures played with this option get a higher experience reward than
 adventure which were played with the save option switched on for the careful
 player.
 The first and simplest possibility to gain experience is fighting.
\layout Section*


\family roman 
3.
 How to fight, flee and other alternatives
\layout Standard

Usually fighting plays an important role in an role playing game.
 Here you can force decisions which can not be reached otherwise.
 In this game you have to be quite carful as if you just blindly attack
 every NPC around you, you will either die quickly or make your adventure
 unsolveable (except the master has taken some precautions against this).
 Also it might be possible that some special abilities migh be influenced
 in a way you do not want when attacking the wrong NPC.
 If you are attacked there is a high chance that it won't have the described
 negative effects.
 Sometimes you even need to attack a NPC as part of the adventure.
 As described later every character has a fundamental attitude when he starts
 the game (and these convictions can chage).
 This gets influenced by fighting as well.
 You will have to learn in which situations you speak with weapons and in
 which you communicate with the NPCs.
 The positive side is that you gain experience as explained in the section
 before.
\layout Standard

When the fight can not be avoided first the game checks out who of the opponents
 has the initiative (depending on the courage attribute and a random factor).
 The exception is the surprise attack (sleeping NPCs or such which did not
 expect being attacked).
 There is a chance that the surprise attack fails depending on the smartness
 of the opponent.
 In every round one character can attack and defend one time (ore more often
 when gained experience in some special abilities).
 If more then one NPC attacks you you can only attack or defend one (or
 more depending to your special abilities).
 Distant fights are possible as well (and require other special abilities
 to attack more than one time in a round).
 If the attack was succesful (i.e.
 attack chance succesfull and defend chance of the opponent not succesfull)
 the game checks if the opponent was hit.
 This depends to your protection power.
 If this is higher than the hit power (and a random factor influenced
 by special abilities) the opponent did not get hurt.
 If it is lower the the corresponding value gets substracted from your life
 points.
 Also your endurance points might get reduced (especially when using special
 attack techniques, like a quick attack which of course had to be learned
 previously).
 Using these possibilities has also positive influence on the experience.
 Usually you get little or no experience points while fighting and only
 killing brings the real amount of experience value.
\layout Standard

If a character gets very low on life points there is a chance that it will
 free from the fight.
 The opponent has one free attack (similar to the surprise attack) if he
 tries to do this.
 The succes of a flight mainly depends on the speed an the weight of the
 stuff he is carrying.
 Also a flight can be done only a number of rounds as the endurance points
 go down while fleeing.
 As the endurance points are closely connected to the life points a flight
 can come to an end much faster than you would expect.
 If the character which tries to flee gets hit the courage values is temporarily
 halfed (and the flight fails).
 If the courage falls below a certain value the charactar surrenders.
 If it falls down to zero the character tries to kill himself (self attack).
 After the fight the courage value gets restored immediately.
\layout Standard

A fight usually lasts one span (10 minutes), while a round lasts one battle
 span (3 seconds).
 Other attack types than closeup fight are described in later sections of
 this document.
 For fighting you normally have weapons, armours.
 These and other equipment items are described in the next section
\layout Section*


\family roman 
4.
 Weapons, Armours and other Equipment
\layout Standard

Every equipment item has the following basic attributes: Hit power value,
 protection power value, weight, changed attribute values, time to load,
 price.
 The hit power value is usually used to show how strong weapons are while
 protection power value shows how good the armour protects you from hits.
 The weight of weapon or armour has influences the attack chance and the
 defend chance.
 A heavy armour might protect you better but your dexterity goes down as
 well and this decreases your attack and your defend chance! The time to
 load is needed for actions like lighting a candle or loading a shoot weapon
 (bow or crossbow).
\layout Standard

The range of a weapon or spell is measured as well.
 Half a metre corresponds a Passus (latin for 
\begin_inset Quotes pld
\end_inset 

step
\begin_inset Quotes prd
\end_inset 

) (ps).
 Half a km corresponds a Kilopassus (kp).
 More measure of length could be defined if needed in a similar way.
 Speed can be measured in pserum per battle span (ps/bs) (This should satisfy
 all the physicists out there...)
\layout Standard

The currency system in Petrergrin is defined as follows: The Pleron (P)
 coin has the highest denomination.
 It corresponds 100 gold pieces (G).
 1 gold piece is the same as 5 silver pieces or 2 etrum or 50 copper pieces
 or 100 farthings.
 The country Pertergrin itself accepts all these types of coins.
 Other countries might only accept a subset of these coin types.
 The weights are usually measures in ounces (100 gram).
 The carrying capacity of a character is usually not more than the half
 of his weight.
 The strength and the endurance has a major influence how much the character
 can carry around.
 There are three types of character sizes: small, medium and large.
 The Terranians are medium sized characters while the gnomes are small sized.
 The game usually pays attention to the sizes of the character and filters
 those which are too large or too small (as a game option: generally or
 in shops only).
 Also the character type might prevent using certain items or prefer certain
 items (influencing the attribute values).
 This can be filtered as well.
\layout Standard

The prices you see when bying or selling things in a shop depend on the
 beauty value.
 An average beauty value means that you get about the half of the price
 shown in the shop when you sell things.
 You can also let the shopkeeper identify certain items at a price.
 Usually the shopkeeper is an specialist in a certain area and cannot identify
 other types of items very well (if at all).
 This is especially important when you try to identify items which might
 be magically enhanced.
 The shopkeeper tells you about the price to identiy an item (usually maximal
 one tenth of the item value).
 If you sell an item it is usally identifies by the shopkeeper.
 Some rare, magic, special or artifact items might not be identified by
 the shopkeeper though.
 Like the shopkeeper is a character type with a certain race the heroes
 are as well as described above.
 The next two section look for these subjects.
\layout Section*


\family roman 
5.
 Hero Races
\layout Standard

The most important part of this document is belongs to the heroes.
 A hero has as already described characteristic values and attributes as
 well as special abilities.
 The race the player chooses when starting a game influences the abilities
 the hero gets.
 Also the region where a new hero starts adventuring might depend on the
 selected race.
 The default races can be explained here, but there might be more races
 added where you have to read extra documentation about the abilities.
 First I will describe the abilities which every hero has from the beginning
 before showing several additional abilities dependent to the race you chose.
 
\layout Standard

There are five immunity abilities in the game currently: Against casting,
 poison, cursing, fire or paralyzing.
 A Terrenian for example is quite good against casting but bad against fire.
 Every special attacked is checked against an immunity so the effect might
 be reduced.
 Hiding is the ability to avoid to be seen by others and thus being able
 to make surprise attacks.
 Helpful in this regard is the ability Walk Silently.
 If you are silent enough you might cross a dangerous foe without fighting.
 Intuition is an ability where the hero gets suggestions by combining facts
 subconsciously (usually in the form of tips).
 Perception is a similar ability.
 The hero gets information about his inner feeling in certain situations.
\layout Standard

When the player chooses a race he can select a number of abilities which
 he could have learned.
 The default abilities usually are Finding Traps, Unlock (with an appropriate
 item), Removing Traps (items can be helpful here as well), Detection (finding
 hidden objects), Climbing, Swimming, Riding, Haggling (in shops), Unarmed
 Fighting, Reading & Writing, Music, Behaviour & Self-Control, Sailing
\layout Standard

Terranians are especially good in Justice and and can additionally learn
 Cooking, Dress Wounds, Disguising, Detect Food, Convincing, Theft, Ancient
 Tales, Farming
\layout Standard

Elfs have the Infravision ability, are especially good in Detection and
 Hiding and can learn Archery, Detect Food, Explore Items, Herb Lore, Ancient
 Tales
\layout Standard

Dwarfs have the Infravision ability, are escpecially good in Finding Traps
 and Detection and can learn Smithing, Creating Traps, Bodybuilding, 
\layout Standard

Gnomes have the Infravision ability, are especially good in and and can
 learn Disguising, Gem & Stone Lore, Illusionism, Alchemy (with appropriate
 potions), Explore Items, Theft,
\layout Standard

Faries have the Floating ability, are especially good at Hiding and Walking
 Silently and can learn Dress Wounds, Convincing, Illusionism, Herb Lore,
 Nature Lore, Weather Forecast
\layout Standard

Diminans have the Explore Food ability, are especially good at Farming and
 Nature Lore and can learn Detection, Weather Forecast, Cooking, Detect
 Food, Theft, Justice, Hiding
\layout Standard

The details of the special abilities are described in skills section, as
 this section does not include several of the hero type abilities.
 Additional abilities might be learned by a player during the game play
 though there is a high probability that it is more difficult for the player
 to gain a high skill value than with the basic abilities which are a natural
 feature of the race or were learned by training for a profession.
\layout Standard

The race the player chooses also influences the characteristic values of
 a characters.
 Diminians, Gnomes and Dwarves are small people.
 Big races include dragons or giants.
 While the big races usually are much stronger the small races have a higher
 dexterity (imagine a giant picking a trapped door or chest).
 Terranians are an average race and the characteristic values are random
 (this reflects the randomly chosen personal interest of a character) or
 can be influenced directly, though concentration on a certain attribute
 makes other attributes weaker.
 This is valid for the other races as well though they cannot become as
 average as a terranian.
 Elves are very intelligent and beautiful though not so strong.
 They find it more difficult to gain experience as they are one of the oldest
 folk on the Pertergrin world.
 Dwarfs are strong but stubborn and very dextrous as well.
 They are not very intelligent.
 Gnomes are quite weak but very dextrous and smart.
 They are not the beautiest race around but no one should dare to tease
 them for their noses.
 The faries are the most weak race around but they compensate this by an
 extremely beauty which stuns and calms down many beings they meet.
 They are connected to the nature and would never attack animals.
 They also are very courageous.
 More informations on the races still have to be written.
\layout Section*


\family roman 
6.
 Hero Types
\layout Standard

The hero type reflects the profession a character has chosen while he grew
 up.
 Usually the profession a player character can choose is independant of
 the race he chooses.
 But as the races have advantages in certain skills and attributes it useful
 to avoid race/type combination which do not fit well together like a farie
 fighter or a dwarven magician.
 Similar to the races only the default types are explained in this section.
 The hero type influences the attributes as well.
 Every race has practice in one ore more weapons but not all of them have
 practice with bows or shields as well.
\layout Standard

There are two types of profession.
 One is the basic hero type which the player chooses when he starts playing.
 As the played advances he might find interest in a certain area in his
 profession where he wants to learn more.
 Such a hero type can be choosen at a certain level defined within the advanced
 hero type (recommanded at least five experience levels).
 The default races explain the most common basic types and only few advanced
 types.
 The basic types should cover most hero types while I hope that many advanced
 types will be added to the game.
 These advanced types have many abilities which can only be learned by choosing
 such an advanced hero types.
 Several of these attributes can be found in different advanced hero types
 especially in mixed types like the magician-fighter.
\layout Standard

Weapons are classified.
 Each class has its own ability.
 Some weapons like knives can be used in different ways so there can be
 two categories for a class.
 The generic abilities Improvised Fighting and Improvised Throwing include
 all objects (this includes objects usually not used for fighting or throwing).
 They improve fighting with every object though at a much lower degree than
 with normal weapon.
 Typical Weapon abilities are Sword Practice, Axe Practice, Knive Practice,
 Mace Practice, Morning Star Practice, Two Handed Weapon Practice.
 Typcial Thrown Weapon abilities are Bow Practice, Crossbow Practice, Sling
 Practice, Thrown Rocks Practice, Thrown Knives Practice, Thrown Spears
 practice, Thrown Axes Practice, Boomerang Practice.
 Armours are classified as well.
 The normal classes are body, helmet, cloak, gauntlet and boot armour.
 Defending Abilities are Shield Practice, Body Practice, Dodge Practice,
 Scare Practice, Confuse Practice, Disarm Practice.
 Other fighting abilities include Unarmed Fighting (Advanced: Head/Body/Hand/Fee
t Fighting), Bowyer/Fletcher, Sharping (requires a tool).
\layout Standard

The magicians additionally use spells for many actions.
 These spells are classified: Healing Spells, Sorcerer Spells, Arcane Spells,
 Fighting Spells, Defence Spells, Nature Spells, Illusion Spells, Priest
 Spells.
 A good player characteristic is the basis for healing spells and neutral
 or good basis is needed for Nature and Defence Spell.
 Fighting Spells can only be learned by neutral or chaotic characters.
 Each spell class is represented by an ability which influences the spell
 chance when casting a spell.
 The abilities are Healing Casting, Sorcerer Casting, Arcane Casting, Fighting
 Casting, Defence Casting, Nature Casting, Illusion Casting, Priest Casting.
 Several spells for each class are documented in the spells section.
 Other magic abilities include Alchemy, Create Magic <itemtype>, Improve
 Magic <itemtype>, Recharge, Magically Enhance <itemtype>, Write Scroll.
 Typical item types are rings, stuffs, <armour type>, <weapon type>, wands,
 amulets, instruments, gems.
\layout Standard

When choosing a hero type the player can select several from the above type
 depending of the type of profession he chooses.
 Unarmed Fighting, Mace Practice, Sling Practice, Thrown Rocks Practice,
 Dodge Practice, Body Practice are the abilities every hero type can choose
 additionally to the abilities shown in the previous section.
 The default hero types can learn the following extra attributes:
\layout Standard

The Fighter has two fighting, defence and one other ability.
 He has no restriction in choosing one of the abilities.
 This default hero type cannot learn any of the magician abilities.
 Advanced fighter types don't have this restricion, like the paladin which
 can learn Priest Casting or the Fighter-magician which can learn Fighting
 and Defence Casting.
 He is especially good in one fighting or defence ability.
 He can additionally learn Archery, Behaviour & Self-Control, Bodybuilding,
 Climbing, Dress Wounds, Riding.
\layout Standard

The Enchanter is the base magician class.
 He can choose from two spell classes.
 It is recommanded to use one of the generic classes Sorcerer or Arcane
 Casting.
 Advanced enchanters can choose the fighting way like fighters (though the
 focus is more on the casting side) and get Magician-fighter.
 Else they can either concentrate on the enchanter hero type or learn additional
 spell classes.
 The possibilities are quite large.
 The Enchanter is especially good at one of the two chosen casting class.
 He can additionally learn Alchemy, Ancient Tales, Convincing, Disguising,
 Explore Items, Herb Lore.
 The Enchanter cannot learn Two Handed Weapon Practice, Thrown Spears or
 Axes Practice, Smithing, Disarm Practice.
\layout Standard

The Adventurer is the most common hero type.
 Though he is quite average compared to the other hero types he has the
 most rise possibilities.
 He can either chose one Casting class and one Fighting and Defence ability
 or Two Fighting and one Defence ability or One Fighting and two Defence
 abilities or One Generic Ability and One Fighting and Defence ability.
 The chosen type usually determines the direction in which the character
 should be developed.
 Typical classes are the Druid, the Ranger or the Vagabond.
 He is especially good in one of the chosen abilities.
 Additionally he can learn all (generic) abilities, recommanded are Ancient
 Tales, Climbing, Cooking, Detect Food, Herb Lore, Nature Lore.
\layout Standard

The Believer is the basic religious type.
 I have not yet determined if there will only be one god or a whole gods
 club like in other role playing games.
 For the moment I assume this basic type behaves similar like a christian
 (ehrm better said like a crusader, as he is not that peaceful).
 He posesses the Priest Casting ability and either one of the additional
 generic Casting abilities and a generic Ability or one Fighting and Defence
 Ability.
 He is especially good in his Priest Casting ability.
 He can additionally learn Convert, Dress Wounds, Nature Lore, Bless, Explore
 Items, Justice.
 He does not use weapons with a blade (knives, swords, axes) and armour
 made out of animals (leather, fur, coat).
 Paladins, Priests or Scouts are typical advanced hero types of a Believer.
\layout Standard

The Bard is the musical hero type of Pertergrin.
 He posesses instruments which might incluence the behaviour of people.
 Some of them have magical abilities.
 His special ability is Music Lore and one instruments which acts like a
 Casting ability.
 Instead of astral power the instruments stores a number of charge which
 gets recharged through training and care of the instrument.
 Else the abilities are similar to an adventurer.
 He can either chose one Fighting and Defence ability or chose to learn
 an additional instrument (which improves the chosen casting ability) and
 one generic ability.
 Additionally he can learn Ancient Tales, Convert, Explore Items, Disguising,
 Artistic Practice, Perception.
 Possible advanced hero types could be the Rogue, Vagabond or Gipsy.
\layout Standard

The following hero types are advanced types: Thief, Paladin, Druid, Wizard,
 Ranger, Priest, Smith, Farmer, Knight, Alchemist, Explorer, Rogue
\layout Standard

Ok, I think that should be enough of the shocking ability theory, you can
 overlook the next chapter as it only contains all abilities again in alphabetic
al order (and as you know, this is only a base ;-) we're happy if this all
 works as intended)
\layout Standard

ToDo: Requirements for base classes ? Better: Requirements for advanced
 classes; Restriction of number of abilities which can be learned; training
 abilities (loosing ability value if untrained a longer time ?), restricted
 number of skill places (depending on the number of available skills), gaining
 one additional per each 5-10 Level.
\layout Section*


\family roman 
7.
 List of Abilities
\layout Standard

As I promised, here is the list of all abilities with some short descriptions.
 They have to be improved of course.
\layout Standard

Alchemy - Knowledge about potions and (basic) chemistry, requires alchemy
 tools 
\layout Standard

Ancient Tales - Knowledge about history and Practice in telling Tales 
\layout Standard

Archery - Knowledge about bows, slings and crossbows, requires one of those
 thrown weapon (and missiles).
 
\layout Standard

Artistic Practice - Practice in making art object and cloning of objects
 
\layout Standard

Axe Practice - Practice about fighting with axes 
\layout Standard

Behaviour & Self-Control - Knowledge and Practice about yourself 
\layout Standard

Bless - Practice how to improve the right feeling or to remove curses (level
 1 curses)
\layout Standard

Bodybuilding - Practice in improving the shape of your body 
\layout Standard

Body Practice - Practice about body defence 
\layout Standard

Boomerang Practice - Practice about throwing weapons which return to the
 sender 
\layout Standard

Bow Practice - Practice about fighting with bows 
\layout Standard

Climbing - Knowledge and Practice, requires climbing tools 
\layout Standard

Cooking - Knowledge and Practice, requires cooking tools 
\layout Standard

Confuse Practice - Practice about tangling enemies 
\layout Standard

Convert - Knowledge how to make other people believe in your religion 
\layout Standard

Convincing - Practice in convincing your own opinion 
\layout Standard

Create Traps - Practice about setting up traps, requires trap tools 
\layout Standard

Crossbow Practice - Practice about fighting with crossbows 
\layout Standard

Detection - Practice in searching and finding things 
\layout Standard

Detect Food - Knowledge and Practice in searching or Hunting for food 
\layout Standard

Disarm Practice - Practice about removing weapons from foes 
\layout Standard

Dress Wounds - Knowledge and Practice how to look for wounds 
\layout Standard

Disguising - Practice in wearing clothes so you are not recognized, requires
 (special) clothes 
\layout Standard

Dodge Practice - Practice about dodging attacks and thrown weapons 
\layout Standard

Explore Items - Knowledge about many (non-magic) items, helps identifying
 
\layout Standard

Farming - Knowledge and Practice how to plant seed ant to look for plants,
 requires farming tools 
\layout Standard

Finding Traps - Knowledge about traps for identifying 
\layout Standard

Floating - Practice in flying above the ground (requires wings or similar)
 
\layout Standard

Gem & Stone Lore - Knowledge about glittering/metallic items (gems, gold,
 silver etc.) 
\layout Standard

Haggling - Practice in convincing shopkeepers of low prices (when bying)
 
\layout Standard

Herb Lore - Knowledge about herbs and seeds 
\layout Standard

Hiding - Practice about hiding in shadows or finding hide-outs 
\layout Standard

Knive Practice - Practice about fighting with knives and daggers 
\layout Standard

Immunity against Casting - Practice in resisting against spells 
\layout Standard

Immunity against Poison - Practice in resisting poison effects 
\layout Standard

Immunity against Cursing - Practice in resisting cursing 
\layout Standard

Immunity against Fire - Practice in resisting fire 
\layout Standard

Immunity against Paralyzing - Practice in resisting paralyzing 
\layout Standard

Infravision - Practice in seeing in the dark 
\layout Standard

Justice - Knowledge about good or bad behaviour 
\layout Standard

Mace Practice - Practice about fighting with maces and flails 
\layout Standard

Morning Star Practice - Practice about fighting with Morning Stars or similar
 weapons 
\layout Standard

Music Lore - Knowledge about sounds and noise.
 
\layout Standard

Nature Lore - Knowledge about nature 
\layout Standard

Perception - Practice in sensing things 
\layout Standard

Removing Traps - Practice disarming traps, trap tools are very helpful 
\layout Standard

Reading & Writing - Knowledge and Practice, might require writing tools
 
\layout Standard

Riding - Practice in climbing on animals and using them to travel 
\layout Standard

Sailing - Knowledge and practice about moving with a ship in the sea 
\layout Standard

Scare Practice - Practice about terrifying enemies 
\layout Standard

Shield Practice - Practice about defending with shields 
\layout Standard

Sling practice - Practice about fighting with slings 
\layout Standard

Smithing - Knowledge and Practice about improving weapons and armours (requires
 smithing tools) 
\layout Standard

Swimming - Practice about surviving in deep water 
\layout Standard

Sword Practice - Practice about fighting with swords 
\layout Standard

Theft - Practice about removing small items from other beings 
\layout Standard

Thrown Axes Practice - Practice about throwing axes 
\layout Standard

Thrown Knives Practice - Practice about throwing knives or daggers 
\layout Standard

Thrown Rocks Practice - Practice about throwing stones or rocks 
\layout Standard

Thrown Spears Practice - Practice about throwing spears 
\layout Standard

Two Handed Weapon Practice - Knowledge and Practice about fighting with
 two weapons at the same time 
\layout Standard

Unarmed Fighting - Knowledge and Practice about fighting without weapons
 
\layout Standard

Unlock - Knowledge and Practice about removing locks from doors 
\layout Standard

Walk Silently - Practice about moving without any noisce 
\layout Standard

Weather Forecast - Knowledge and Practice about the development of the weather
\layout Section*


\family roman 
8.
 Magic and Spells
\layout Standard

This chapter contains a list of spells (or better will contain it).
 Every spell has severel parameters which describe the effect of a spell:
 The range of the spell (R), the duration (how long a spell lasts) (D),
 the effect itself (descriptive) (E), the cost (usually astral power (Ap))
 (C), deduction (influencing the chance that the spell will succeed) (DD).
 The spells listed here are subject to change (at least the membership of
 the casting class).
\layout Subsubsection*

Arcane Spells:
\layout Standard

1) Web - R: 5 ps, D: permanent (p), E: web is created for catching certain
 items (can also have effects like a spider web on a floor), C: 20 Ap/ps
 size 
\layout Standard

2) Enchant Item - R: Touch (T), D: p, E: enhances an item magically, C:
 dependent on item and 
\begin_inset Quotes pld
\end_inset 

charge
\begin_inset Quotes prd
\end_inset 

 of item, DD: dependent on charge of item
\layout Standard

3) Deform Item - R: T, D: p, E: similar to smithing (i.e.
 only one material, material can be added), very powerful!, C: 20 Ap/ounce
 (changed+added!)
\layout Standard

4) Reaction - R: 1 ps, D: at once, E: uncertain, C: 132 Ap
\layout Standard

5) Magical Insight - R: 500 ps, D: p, E: sense all non-living objects (similar
 to a map), may also appear partially, C: 50 Ap, DD: 5%/difficulty grade
 of level
\layout Standard

6) Transform Water - R: T, D: p, E: transforms water into poison or heal
 potion (or another random potion), C: 15 Ap/difficulty grade of potion
\layout Standard

7) Transform Food - R: T, D: p, E: transforms food ration into other (f.e.
 poisoned or especially nourishing), C: 20 Ap/difficulty grade of food
\layout Standard

8) Teleport Other - R: T, D: at once, E: teleports object up to 1000ps (or
 into a save place in the guild), C: 25 Ap + 10 Ap/20 ounce
\layout Standard

9) Animal Polymorph - R: 0, D: 1 sp/level, E: Magician transforms into choosen
 animal (excluding equipment, can be used if appropriate), C: 10 Ap/animal
 level 
\layout Standard

10) Defend Elemental Force - R: 0/T, D: p (A), E: holds back one element
 from a (N)PC (can be used once per adventure on a character), C: 50 Ap
\layout Standard

11) Comprehend Languages - R: hearing distance, D: 1 sp/level, E: Magician
 can understand all languages (except animals and plants), C: 5 Ap
\layout Standard

12) Break Spell - R: 50 ps, D: p, E: removes magic caused by spells, C:
 50 Ap
\layout Standard

13) Perceive Evil - R: 200 ps, D: 2 bs/level, E: Magician sees all evil
 beings in range, C: 11 Ap
\layout Standard

14) Shock Ray - R: 30 ps, D: 5 bs/level, E: invisible rays having an effect
 like a shock, C: Ap=ep of enemy
\layout Standard

15) Magic Merge - R: 0, D: 5 bs/level, E: magician merges (physically) with
 wall or floor and cannot be attacked physically (until magician moves),
 C: 5 Ap
\layout Standard

16) Repair Items - R: T, D: p, E: repairs broken item not longer broken
 than 2 hours, C: 10 Ap
\layout Standard

17) Teach Telekinesis - R: 0/T, D: p, E: magician 
\begin_inset Quotes pld
\end_inset 

teaches
\begin_inset Quotes prd
\end_inset 

 (N)PC telekinesis, usage and cost like sorcerer spell!, C: 50 Ap/NPC
\layout Standard

18) Annul Telekinesis - R: 10 ps, D: p, E: magician annuls teaching of telekines
is or an telekinesis spell, C: 5 Ap
\layout Standard

19) NPC Knowledge - R: T, D: p, E: magician learns certain attributes of
 the touched NPC, C: 40 Ap
\layout Standard

20) Destroy Trap - R: T, D: 5 ps, E: removes all traps in range, C: 3 Ap/trap
\layout Subsubsection*

Healing Spells:
\layout Standard

1) Minor heal force - R: T, D: p, E: heals 1 Lp for 1 Ap, C: see effect
\layout Standard

2) Major heal force - R: T, D: p, E: heals 1 Lp for 3 Ap including poison
 and blindness with, always suceeds, C: see effect (minimum 5 Lp) 
\layout Standard

3) Cure Sickness - R: T, D: p, E: cures one arbitrary (non-magical) illness,
 C: 9 Ap/Level of illness (healing can be done in several steps ?)
\layout Standard

4) Unpetrify - R: T, D: p, E: cures victim from petrification, C: 20 Ap
\layout Standard

5) Cure Poison - R: T, D: p, E: heals from poisoning, C: 1Ap/2 poison levels
\layout Standard

6) Life Ray - R: 50 ps, D: p, E: all dead beings (including animals/plants)
 in range become alive, C: 500 Ap
\layout Standard

7) Remove Paralysis - R: T, D: p, E: removes paralysis/shock effect, C:
 4 Ap
\layout Standard

8) Health Potion - R: T, D: p, E: Fills empty flask with a curing fluid
 (heal, cure poison/blindness, illness etc), C: 2Ap/Lp or 5Ap or 9 Ap/Level
 of illness
\layout Standard

9) Reanimate Dead - R: T, D: p, E: bring back life into a dead body, C:
 90Ap, DD: -8% per day since death
\layout Standard

10) Nourish Charm - R: 0/T, D: p, E: feeds magician/PC, C: 9 Ap
\layout Standard

11) Reanimate Undead - R: T, D: p, E: destroys undead, reveals information
 about dead cause of victim, C: 12 Ap + 2 Ap since day of death
\layout Subsubsection*

Sorcerer Spells:
\layout Standard

1) Cure Wounds - R: T, D: p, E: heals 1lp/Ap, C: see effect
\layout Standard

2) Artificial Light - R: like torch, D: 4 sp + 1/level, E: creates light
 similar to torch, C: 2Ap
\layout Standard

3) Enchant Lock - R: T, D: p (until broken), E: locks doors or chests magically,
 C: 10Ap
\layout Standard

4) Disenchant Lock - R: T, D: p, E: unlocks doors or chests, C: 5Ap/level
 of lock (upto level of magician)
\layout Standard

5) Magic Lance - R: 10 ps, D: at once, E: magic energy lance, C: 2Ap/dp
 (damage points)
\layout Standard

6) Telepathy - R: 5 ps, D: 5 bs, E: Magician can read/feel mind, C: 15 Ap
\layout Standard

7) Perceive Telepathy Scan - R: 5ps, D: 5 sp, E: Magician senses/blocks
 telephatic scans, C: 30 Ap
\layout Standard

8) Invisibility - R: 0, D: 1Sp/Level, E: Magician and all person near 1
 ps become invisible, C: 15 Ap
\layout Standard

9) See Invisible - R: 10 ps, D: 1 sp, E: Magician sees all invisible items/being
s, C: 12 Ap
\layout Standard

10) Teleport - R: 0, D: at once, E: Magician teleports up to 1000 ps, C:
 5 Ap/ps
\layout Standard

11) Telekinesis - R: 30 ps, D: 2 sp, E: Magician can move (accelerate) or
 levitate items with the help of the mind, C: 1Ap/20 Ounces
\layout Standard

12) Look through Walls - R: 1ps, D: 5 bs, E: Magician can see through walls/door
s (even chests) up to 1 ps thicknesss, C: 2 Ap
\layout Standard

13) Form Matter - R: T, D: 1 day, E: Magician can remodel a non-magic item
 to another 
\begin_inset Quotes pld
\end_inset 

lower
\begin_inset Quotes prd
\end_inset 

 non-magic item, C: 100 Ap/object 
\layout Standard

14) Remove Magic - R: 1 ps, D: p, E: Every (!) magic item / spell / being
 in range (!) looses its magic, C: 60 Ap
\layout Standard

15) Underwater Breath - R: 0/T, D: 1sp/level, E: Magician or touched person
 can breathe under water, C: 10 Ap/person
\layout Standard

16) Recognize Enchantment - R: 30 ps, D: 1 bs/level, E: Magician sees all
 magic things in a light green frame, C: 5 Ap
\layout Standard

17) Read Magic Writing - R: 1 ps, D: 1 sp, E: Magician is able to read everythin
g, C: 5 Ap
\layout Standard

18) Magic Flight - R: 0, D: 2 sp + 1/level, E: Magician and persons are
 able to fly, C: 20 Ap + 20/NPC
\layout Standard

19) Take Over - R: visual contact, D: 2 sp/level, E: Magician takes over
 victim (and controls it), C: 75 Ap
\layout Standard

20) Insight in 5th Dimension - R: 100 ps, D: 1 bs/level, E: Magician sees
 all psi-caused actions (f.e.
 telepathy, telekinesis, teleportation), C: 20 Ap
\layout Subsubsection*

Fighting Spells:
\layout Standard

1) Magic Spear - R: 20 ps, D: at once, E: magic energy spear, C: 3Ap/dp
\layout Standard

2) Fire Explosion - R: 25 ps/2ps radius, D: at once, E: fire damage d6*level
 dp, C: 25 Ap, DD: level-30% (upto 0% on level >=30)
\layout Standard

3) Object to Stone - R: 15 ps, D: p, E: item/being is transformed to stone,
 C: 30 Ap, DD: -3%/level of item/being
\layout Standard

4) Create Servant - R: 30 ps, D: 1 year/level, E: Create Servant (a NPC),
 with somewhat random values, C: 50 Ap/level of NPC
\layout Standard

5) Cone of Ice - R: 15 ps, D: at once, E: magic cold cone within 1 ps radius,
 cold damage d4*level dp, C: 20 Ap, DD: like 2)
\layout Standard

6) Earth Quake - R: 50 ps, D: at once, E: destroys everything in range except
 in the middle (4 ps), C: 100 Ap
\layout Standard

7) Sleep NPC - R: 10 ps, D: 1 sp, E: sleeps one or several NPCs in range,
 C: 7 Ap/victim (wakes up when attacked)
\layout Standard

8) Paralyze Enemy - R: 5 ps, D: 2 bs/level, E: paralyzes one or several
 NPCs in range, C: 20 Ap/victim
\layout Standard

9) Petrify - R: 1 ps, D: p, E: NPC or item is transformed into stone (continues
 to live 5 days after that), C: 55 Ap
\layout Standard

10) Create Acid - R: 60 ps, D: p, E: creates acid source or small acid lake
 with radius of 2 ps which looks like water, C: 50 Ap
\layout Standard

11) Flash Fire - R: 30 ps, D: p, E: flashes courses through bodies of victims
 in range, C: 10Ap/dp (all victims get same damage)
\layout Standard

12) Curse - R: Hearing distance, D: p, E: Covers victim/item with a curse,
 C: 20 Ap/curse level and grade
\layout Standard

13) Create Undead - R: T, D: p, E: Creates undead creatures from dead body,
 C: 10 Ap + 2Ap/Lp
\layout Standard

14) Sphere of Death - R: 50 ps, D: p, E: all beings (including plants/animals)
 die, C: 400 Ap, DD: -5%/level of victim (pure black, chaotic magic!)
\layout Standard

15) Fire Missiles - R: like arrows, D: at once, E: creates fire arrows causing
 d4*level fire damage, C: 4 Ap/arrow, DD: like arrows
\layout Subsubsection*

Defence Spells:
\layout Standard

1) Visibility - R: 5 ps, D: 10 bs/level, E: invisible beings/items become
 visible (for all persons, not only magician), C: 15 Ap
\layout Standard

2) Magic Shield - R: 1 ps, D: 1 sp, E: Magician gets a protection shield
 against normal attacks (not elemental / magical), C: 30 Ap
\layout Standard

3) Magic Armour - R: 5 ps, D: 1 sp, E: Magician and all things in the area
 are protected through an magic armour from all sides, C: 50 Ap
\layout Standard

4) Elemental Shield - R: 1 ps, D: 5bs/level, E: Magician is protected against
 all elemental attacks (does not include energy or normal attacks!), C:
 25 Ap
\layout Standard

5) Magic Wears Off - R: T, D: 10bs/level, E: all magically caused attacks
 (includes magically enhanced items) have no effect, C: 35 Ap
\layout Standard

6) Anti Shock Sphere - R: 10 ps, D: 1 sp, E: Magician and PCs are protected
 against shock waves within the sphere, C: 20 Ap
\layout Standard

7) Missile Control - R: 50 ps, D: 2 sp, E: Magician can control missiles
 through concentration, C: 5Ap/missile (up to 5 missiles/2 levels)
\layout Standard

8) Teach Teleportation - R: 0/T, D: p, E: Magician 
\begin_inset Quotes pld
\end_inset 

teaches
\begin_inset Quotes prd
\end_inset 

 teleportation to (N)PC, usage and cost like sorcerer spell!, C: 50 Ap/(N)PC
\layout Standard

9) Annul Teleportation - R: 15 ps, D: p, E: Annul teaching of teleportation
 or a teleportation spell, C: 10 Ap
\layout Standard

10) Floating - R: 0, D: 1sp/level, E: Float in the air, avoiding all traps,
 C: 12 Ap
\layout Standard

11) Eagle Eye - R: 40 ps, D: 2sp/level, E: Creates an (moveable) invisible
 eagle eye (infravision possible) above the magician for observing, C: 17
 Ap
\layout Standard

12) Acceleration - R: 0/T, D: 1sp/2level, E: magician or PC gets much more
 speedy, C: 10 Ap/acceleration point
\layout Subsubsection*

Nature Spells:
\layout Standard

1) Nebula - R: 20ps + 1ps/level, D: 2 bs/level, E: Creates 50+1/level cps
 (cubic passus) of nebula in range, C: 20 Ap
\layout Standard

2) Absolute Silence - R: 5 ps, D: 1 sp/level, E: creates a cube of silence
 (20 os) in range (makes casting impossible ?), C: 15 Ap
\layout Standard

3) Pathfinder - R: 10 kp, D: 2 sp, E: Magician sees all ways in range and
 all beings walking on them (only works outdoors or in planted dungeons),
 C: 27 Ap
\layout Standard

4) Control Weather - R: 0, D: 1 sp/level, E: Creates a certain weather (outdoor)
, C: 75 Ap
\layout Standard

5) Natural Flashes - R: 1 ps, D: at once, E: creates flashes on a victim
 (outdoor spell or dungeon with large water regions), C: 2AF/Sp, DD: Level-20%
\layout Standard

6) Locate Animals - R: 100 ps, D: 5 bs, E: All animals illuminate in a yellowish
 color, C: 32 Ap
\layout Standard

7) Plant Language - R: 5 ps, D: 5 sp, E: Magician understands plants, C:
 15 Ap
\layout Standard

8) Animal Language - R: 5 ps, D: 5 sp, E: Magician understands animals,
 C: 15 Ap
\layout Standard

9) Plant/Animal Knowledge - R: 20 ps, D: 1 sp/level, E: Magician recognizes
 attributes of animals or plants in range, C: 70 Ap
\layout Standard

10) Wonder Healing - R: T, D: p, E: heals all wounds (including poison and
 blindness) and illness (last one outdoor only), C: 5Ap/Lp, 10 Ap/illness
 level
\layout Standard

11) Drink & Meal - R: 1 ps, D: p, E: creates enough meal for satiating the
 party, C: 10 Ap/pc
\layout Standard

12) Water Research - R: 0, D: 10 sp/level, E: Magician can breathe like
 a fish, C: 5 Ap
\layout Standard

13) Water Bridge - R: 0, D: 1 sp/level, E: Magician can walk on water, C:
 30 Ap
\layout Standard

14) Desintegrate Undeads - R: 20 ps, D: p, E: destroys undeads, 7Ap/victim
 and level, DD: -1%/level (every victim is checked)
\layout Standard

15) Numbing - R: T, D: 5 sp, E: numbs plants or animals (for healing, feeding
 etc.), C: 5 Ap
\layout Standard

16) Wall - R: 50 ps, D: 2 bs/level, E: creates Wall from natural material,
 C: 45 Ap
\layout Standard

17) Plant Growth - R: 10 ps/level, D: 5 sp, E: lets plants in range grow
 by a certain amount, C: 15 Ap/growth level
\layout Standard

18) Nature Attack - R: 20 ps, D: 1 bs/level, E: spores and insect attack
 all enemies in range causing d6*level damage, confusion and terror, C:
 10 Ap/NPC
\layout Standard

19) Glowing Light - R: like lamp, D: 2 sp/level, E: glowing animals/plants
 become stimulated to emit light, C: 3 Ap
\layout Standard

20) Snake Stick - R: T, D: 1 sp/level, E: a stick, sword or similar item
 is transformed into a (random) snake, C: 1 Ap/lp (dead snake transforms
 back)
\layout Subsubsection*

Illusion Spells:
\layout Standard

1) Double - R: 20 Ps, D: 1 sp/level, E: Magician creates doubles from himself
 or another person, C: 20 Ap/person and double
\layout Standard

2) Gas Change - R: 0, D: 5 sp + 1/level (abortable), E: Magician becomes
 gaseous, C: 35 Ap
\layout Standard

3) Transform - R: 0/T, D: 5 bs/level, E: NPC transforms into an object,
 C: 99 Ap
\layout Standard

4) Create Illusion - R: T, D: 5 bs/level, E: NPC is being confused by an
 illusion, C: 10 Ap/level of NPC
\layout Standard

5) Fireworks - R: 500 cps, D: 3 sp, E: magician creates fireworks at the
 sky, distracting all the (N)PCs in range (outdoor only), C: 20 Ap
\layout Standard

6) Terrain Transformation - R: 200 cps, D: 5 sp, E: magician changes parts
 of the terrain, C: 15 Ap/changed part
\layout Standard

7) Fire Wall - R: 100 ps, D: 1 sp/level, E: creates fire wall which does
 no damage when stepped through, C: 3 Ap
\layout Standard

8) Conjure Daemon - R: 20 ps, D: 2 sp/level, E: creates minor daemon which
 can attack a victim, all lp damages transform to ep 
\begin_inset Quotes pld
\end_inset 

damages
\begin_inset Quotes prd
\end_inset 

 afterwards, C: 25 Ap
\layout Standard

9) Mass Illusion - R: 30 ps, D: 10 bs/level, E: All PCs take the form of
 trees or pillars to deceive enemies, C: 12 Ap/PC
\layout Standard

10) Frog Trick - R: 10 ps, D: 2 sp, E: All determined victims believe they
 were transformed to frogs, C: 1Ap/frog
\layout Subsubsection*

Priest Spells:
\layout Standard

1) Heal Wounds - R: T, D: p, E: heals 1 Lp for 2 Ap, always suceeds, C:
 see effect
\layout Standard

2) Relieve Fear - R: 15 ps, D: p, E: make victim bold, C: 5 Ap
\layout Standard

3) Remove Darkness - R: T, D: p, E: cures victim from blindness, C: 15 Ap
\layout Standard

4) Conjure Brightness - R: like a lamp, D: Level*5, E: creates light, C:
 2 Ap
\layout Standard

5) Divine Health - R: T, D: p, E: cures one arbitrary (non-magical) illness,
 C: 10 Ap/Level of illness (healing can be done in several steps ?)
\layout Standard

6) Create Water - R: 60 ps, D: p, E: creates source or small lake in range
 of 2 ps, C: 5 Ap
\layout Standard

7) Defend Cold - R: 10 ps, D: 10 Sp/Level, E: Defend shield against cold,
 K: 10 Ap
\layout Standard

8) Snake Protection - R: 5 ps, D: 6, E: holds back snakes, K: 3Ap/Snake
\layout Standard

9) Defend Fire - R: 10 ps, D: 5 Sp/Level, E: Defend shield against fire,
 K: 10 Ap
\layout Standard

10) Divine Nourishment - R: 1 ps, D: p, E: creates food from solid objects,
 K: 1Ap/ounce
\layout Standard

11) Recognise Evil - R: 500 ps, D: 2 bs, E: Magician feels Evil beings,
 C: 10 Ap
\layout Standard

12) Holy Movement - R: 5 ps, D: 5 bs, E: Moves items to a destination point
 at slow speed, C: 5 Ap/ounce
\layout Standard

13) Mighty Death Message - R: T, D: 5 sp, E: Magician can speak (about death
 cause) with the soul of the victim who died, C: 5Ap/day since dead
\layout Standard

14) Remove Curse - R: T, D: p, E: Remove Curse from victim or item, C: 5Ap/Curse
 Level
\layout Standard

15) Resurrect - R: T, D: p, E: bring back life into a dead body, C: 100Ap,
 DD: -10% per day since death
\layout Standard

16) Location Finder/Resort - R: 0, D: 5 Sp + 1/Level, E: shows location
 and direction (teleports), C: 40 Ap
\layout Standard

17) Word of Wrath - R: 15 ps, D: 1 day, E: all evil (good) beings become
 numbed (until touched), C: 5 Ap/being
\layout Standard

18) Destroy Undead - R: 15 ps, D: p, E: all undead creatures are destroyed,
 C: 10Ap/being and level of being, DD: -3%/level (every undead is checked)
\layout Standard

19) Signs of Expulsion - R: 1 ps, D: 5 sp, E: Enemy flees (check against
 courage), C: 5Ap/victim and level, DD: -1%/level (every victim is checked)
\layout Standard

20) Prayer Power - R: T, D: 4 sp + 1/level, E: increases one additional
 ability by 5%, C: 30 Ap
\layout Standard

I think after this chapter you might have an idea about the complexity of
 the game.
\the_end
